# 1915. Number of Wonderful Substrings

A wonderful string is a string where at most one letter appears an odd number of times.

- For example, `"ccjjc"` and `"abab"` are wonderful, but `"ab"` is not.

Given a string `word` that consists of the first ten lowercase English letters (`'a'` through `'j'`), return ***the number of wonderful non-empty substrings** in* `word`*.* *If the same substring appears multiple times in* `word`*,* *then count each occurrence separately.*

A **substring** is a contiguous sequence of characters in a string.

## Solution from Editorial

### Approach: Count Parity Prefixes

```python
class Solution:
    def wonderfulSubstrings(self, word: str) -> int:
        freq = {}

        freq[0] = 1
        mask = 0
        res = 0
        for c in word:
            bit = ord(c) - 97
            mask ^= (1 << bit)
            if mask in freq:
                res += freq[mask]
                freq[mask] += 1
            else:
                freq[mask] = 1
            
            for odd_c in range(10):
                if (mask ^ (1 << odd_c)) in freq:
                    res += freq[mask ^ (1 << odd_c)]
        return res
```

The parity of a letter means whether the count of that letter in a word is even or odd. We can find the parity of a letter by taking the frequency of that letter modulo $2$. Letters with odd frequencies have a parity of $1$, and letters with even frequencies have a parity of $0$.

The subtask now is to count the number of substrings with all letters appearing an even number of times. In other words, substrings where the parity of every letter is `0`. Because there are only $10$ distinct letters the string can consist of, we can use a bitmask of $10$ bits to represent the parities of all letters in a string.

**For any substring in the input string `word`, we can represent it as the difference between two prefixes of `s`. For example, substring $[2,5]$ is the difference between prefix $[0,5]$ and $[0,1]$.**

> In the example of `"feffaec"`, whose bitmask is <code>(100101)<sub>2</sub></code>, $[2, 5]$ is `"ffae"` and its bitmask is <code>(10001)<sub>2</sub></code>. $[0, 1]$ is `"fe"`, whose bitmask is <code>(110000)<sub>2</sub></code>, $[0, 5]$, `"feffae"`, <code>(100001)<sub>2</sub></code>. And the difference is <code>(10001)<sub>2</sub></code>. This can also be achieved with XOR operation, instead of subtraction, because the XOR function is equivalent to subtraction under modulo $2$.

Observe that the substring will equate to a mask of $0$ if and only if the masks of the two prefixes are equal. All bits are independently calculated in the XOR function, where for each bit, the output is true when there is an odd number of true inputs. This gives us an efficient way to find the difference between the larger and smaller prefixes.

This gives us a linear time way to count strings with all characters appearing an even number of times: maintain the parity mask of the current prefix, and compare it with previous prefixes of the same value in a frequency map.

#more_to_learn 
## Other Solution

```python
class Solution:
    def wonderfulSubstrings(self, word: str) -> int:
        toBit = {c: 1 << i for i, c in enumerate(ascii_lowercase[:10])}
        mask = 0

        count = defaultdict(int)
        count[0] = 1

        for c in word:
            mask ^= toBit[c]
            count[mask] += 1

        res = 0
        for mask, cnt in count.items():
            res += cnt * (cnt - 1) // 2
            for i in range(10):
                mask2 = mask ^ (1 << i)
                if mask2 < mask:
                    res += cnt * count.get(mask2, 0)
            
        return res
```